---
title: GGJ2015
description: Themes, diversifiers, and other info about GGJ2015.
---

## Main Theme
### What do we do now?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1W5VxdNyNk

## Diversifiers 


### Noise Generator 
The mechanic of the game is based on players having to stay in constant communication with each other.

### Folk
The game uses a folk or indigenous art style of your region.

### NES
Make the game playable on an old school console, either directly or through an emulator.

### Wrist Watcher
The game is playable on a smart-watch, or uses wearable technology in some way.

### Clueless Parents
The game helps kids teach something to their parents or other family members.

### Batch Job
The game is a batch file from any operating system, using command line tools found in an out of the box installation.

### Chimera
The game is played partly as a digital and partly as a non-digital (board, card, etc.) game.

### Hyper-Local
The game is set in your town/city and contains elements locals can identify, while still being entertaining for a global audience.

### Can I Try?
Any spectator of the game automatically becomes a player as well.

### This is How it Feels
The game raises awareness of how hate speech or unfair accusations feel, and what kind of effect they have on their targets.

### Stephen Hawking Can Play This
In the game everything (including any menus) can be navigated with one button, without any need for quick / precisely timed presses.

### Eagle Ear
The game is primarily visual, but is also playable by visually impaired  players, either through audio design, or through a screenreader (VoiceOver, Talkback, JAWS etc).

### Relatively Speaking
A game based on the 100th anniversary of Einstein’s theory of general relativity, which explained that massive objects cause a distortion in space-time, such as light bending around black holes.

### Public Domain Class of 2015
Make a game based on the works entered to Public Domain on 1st January 2015 - for instance works of Wassily Kandinsky, Edvard Munch, Edith Sitwell, Piet Mondrian, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Felix Nussbaum, Filippo Tommaso Emilio Marinetti, Glenn Miller, Flannery O’Connor, and Ian Fleming (cough, James Bond, cough), depending on your country.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2015_in_public_domain

### Code for Good (Sponsored by Intel)
Make a game with the goal of improving literacy, or inspiring interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields.