---
title: GGJ2022
description: Themes, diversifiers, and other info about GGJ2022.
---

## Main Theme
### Duality
https://v3.globalgamejam.org/news/theme-ggj-2022

## Sponsored
### Don’t go alone, take THIS (Sponsored by Unity)
The GGJ is all about people coming together, sharing ideas, and making them a reality. Create a game about people or things coming together that includes a unique focal item: what is "this"?

### Emotional Rollercoaster (Sponsored by dotbigbang)
Create a game that creates an emotional response in the player. Laughter, fear, joy, affection, surprise or a sense of accomplishment (paraphrased from Satoru Iwata).

### Be Visionary (Sponsored by Sony Interactive Entertainment)
Enable VR support in your game, and/or implement eye-tracking capabilities as part of your game play.

### The Best from Britain (Sponsored by UK Games Fund/Tranzfuser)
You should only use this diversifier if you are a team based in the UK. Participating teams should provide content that pays homage to / captures the spirit of / shows influence from a UK video game IP or a UK-based video game developer / studio. We’d be delighted to see any game of your choosing that showcases exceptional talent from the UK. Whether it’s a worldwide famous AAA title or an iconic indie game, we want to join you in celebration of all that is great  about Britain’s game dev heritage. To find out more click here https://tranzfuser.com/global-game-jam-ukgtf-diversifier/ 

### Celebrate and Protect Cultural Heritage (Sponsored by Cultural Antiquities Task Force of the US State Department)
Create a game ​that celebrates diverse cultural​ heritage and raises awareness of art, artifacts, traditions, and places at risk from theft, looting, trafficking, destruction, and climate change.

### Sustainable (Sponsored by Virtuos)
Dealing with limited resources can be a boost for creativity and may lead to greater achievements. Use at least one limited resource in your game (time, energy, moves, etc) that encourages players to come up with creative solutions to complete the game or level(s).

### Quest for Knowledge (Sponsored by TwilioQuest)
Weave new lessons into the rich sci-fi universe of TwilioQuest- Use our educational RPG framework and content authoring tools to teach any technical tool or concept to our growing community of developers. Learn more and get started here.

### Core Exercise (Sponsored by Core Games)
Use the Core Games platform to create your Global Game Jam entry. Entries created in Core are eligible to win part of a $10,000 prize pool; find out more at https://bit.ly/Core-GGJ22  

## Accessibility
### GAG10
Celebrate the 10th anniversary of http://www.gameaccessibilityguidelines.com by implementing 10 guidelines from the site.

### I See Where You're Coming From
The direction that sounds are coming from is displayed visually on screen.

### Stress Free
Give the player an option to play with the difficult greatly reduced (e.g. no enemies, no timer)

## Art
### Another Dimension
Create a game in the Voxel art style.

### 20th Century Gaming
Your game's visuals are in the style of games from a device released before the year 2000.

### Acutely Eye-dentifiable
The game has super kawaii(cute) and high-contrast visuals.

## Audio
### All that Jazz
Use a music piece from prior to 1923 in your game. All sound recordings fixed before 1923 will enter the public domain in the U.S. see https://www.copyright.gov/music-modernization/ 

### The Classics Never Go Out of Style
Use only chiptune audio in a non-retro style game.

### Mixtape
Upload any music you make for your game online and share it under a Creative Commons license so that others can use it this year or in Global Game Jam 2023! Submit your music or find music to use in this Google Drive Folder

## Code
### Runtime Fun Time
Create a game without using any external assets, all your content must be generated from code at runtime.

### Keep it Clean
Keep your code clean! No more than 3 parameters per method, no more than 15 lines per method! Keep it clean to the max!

### On Board
You must develop and deploy your game on a single board computer such as the Raspberry Pi

## Design
### Playable Places
Create a game that can be played in your local community, on the streets, in a covid-safe manner.

### Keys to Success
Make a multiplayer game where each player uses only one keyboard key to control some aspect of the game.

### Stick Together
Make a game that revolves around grouping characters or objects.

## Meta
### Made to Play Together
Make a multiplayer digital game with a physical component; for example an online multiplayer game that also has a physical game board.

### Take A Break
Each member of the team has to take at least one break every 2-3 hours.

### Everyone is a Creator
At least one of your collaborators has to be someone who is not involved in games or game design at all. Their contribution to the game must be significant, or at the very least not a tokenistic throw-away gag.

## Narrative
### Brxu Vhfuhw lv Vdih zlwk Ph
Include cryptography and ciphers in the gameplay or narrative of your game!

### Build Your Own Multi-verse
Your game's narrative should include characters from at least two works of fiction that are now in the public domain (e.g. The Great Gatsby, Peter Pan, The Secret Garden, Treasure Island, A Daughter of the Samurai, etc.).

### Rhyme or Reason
All of your in-game dialog/text/speech must rhyme.