---
title: GGJ2025
description: Themes, diversifiers, and other info about GGJ2025.
---

## Main Theme
### (Not Yet Released)

(Content needed)

## Headline Partners
### Peaceformers (G4C University Student Challenge)

Design a web-playable game where players take action about how resources are shared and divided. Keep the peace among all groups in a fair and equitable way.

More info: [https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/peaceformers-challenge/](https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/peaceformers-challenge/)

#### Additional Info from the Games For Change Student Challenge Website
##### The Issue:
It is more likely for a society to be a peaceful place when everyone has the resources they need to survive and thrive, such as water, shelter, electricity, access to healthy food, freedom, and access to education. Catastrophes like violence and natural disasters can make it really hard for people to have these needs met, and people in power must make difficult decisions about how to ensure their citizens have the resources they need. What would you do in that situation?

##### The Game Design Prompt:
Design a game in an imagined world where players need to take action about how resources are shared and divided. The main goal is to keep the peace among all groups in a fair and equitable way in your game civilization.

### Nurture yourself with Nature (G4C University Student Challenge)

Design a web-playable game that tries to boost the mental health and wellbeing of players by connecting and deepening personal bonds with nature, and easing eco-anxiety. 

More info: [https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/nurture-yourself-with-nature/](https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/nurture-yourself-with-nature/)

#### Additional Info from the Games For Change Student Challenge Website
##### The Issue:
Eco-anxiety is [defined](https://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/2017/03/mental-health-climate.pdf) as a chronic fear of environmental doom; young people, in particular, are [feeling the effects of the climate crises on their mental health](https://researchportal.bath.ac.uk/en/publications/climate-anxiety-in-children-and-young-people-and-their-beliefs-ab), voicing their concerns about the future of planet Earth. One way to ease these worries is by nurturing a strong connection to nature, which can be achieved through these [5 pathways](https://www.derby.ac.uk/research/centres-groups/nature-connectedness-research-group/): sensory contact with the natural world, taking time to appreciate the beauty of nature, thinking about the meaning and signs of nature, finding an emotional bond with and love for nature, and showing compassion and care for nature. It’s important to note that not everyone has equal access to nature. We must listen and learn with the communities we wish to engage as we face the challenges of climate change.
 

##### The Game Design Prompt:
Imagine the powerful role nature can play in boosting the mental health and well-being of young people while also easing eco-anxiety. Your challenge? Design a game that not only educates players about their personal bond with nature but also guides them through the five pathways to deepen that connection. Get ready to inspire discovery, foster resilience, and embark on a journey that connects hearts and minds with the natural world.


### Outplay Hunger (G4C University Student Challenge)

Design a web-playable game to encourage actions which encourage players to reduce food loss and waste, and/or how to achieve a healthy food diet in your school, community, or country.

More info: [https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/outplay-hunger/](https://gamesforchange.org/studentchallenge/outplay-hunger/)

#### Additional Info from the Games For Change Student Challenge Website
##### The Issue:

Hunger is a big problem affecting nearly 1 in 10 people worldwide. It’s not just about feeling hungry – it’s also when someone doesn’t have enough food to stay healthy and active. Hunger makes it hard for kids to learn in school. Many children miss classes because their families can’t afford food, or they struggle to focus when their stomachs are empty. You might think hunger happens because there’s not enough food, for example, because of war or natural disasters, but that’s not always true. Often, it’s because food isn’t distributed fairly, some people can’t afford nutritious food, and a lot of good food goes to waste.

Did you know that about one-fifth of all food produced worldwide is lost or wasted? Meanwhile, many people eat foods that aren’t very healthy or nutritious. To solve the hunger problem, we need to improve how we produce and distribute food, learn more about healthy eating, and work together to make sure everyone has enough good food. You can help too! By learning about hunger and making smart food choices. Can you help us outplay hunger?

 
##### The Game Design Prompt:

Think about two important hunger challenges: How to reduce food loss and waste, and how to achieve a healthy food diet in your school, community, or country context. Using a design tool of your choice, design a game on either of those two challenges in a way that informs and encourages your players to make a difference.


### Ctl+Alt+Disinfo (United with Ukraine Game Jam)

Create a game that builds critical thinking skills to increase awareness of and skepticism around disinformation.

More info: [https://globalgamejam.org/news/ctrlaltdisinfo-create-games-build-critical-thinking-skills](https://globalgamejam.org/news/ctrlaltdisinfo-create-games-build-critical-thinking-skills)



### Great Games Come From Everywhere (sponsored by Xsolla)

Design a game that’s inspired by the unique culture, history, geography, or traditions of your region!





## Sponsored
### Unite Generations (Sponsored by Unity)

Design a game that engages multiple generations. This could range from a game designed to be played with your grandparents to including intergenerational characters to drawing inspiration from music through the decades.

### Sharing is caring (Sponsored by GitHub)

Share the source code for your submission in a public GitHub repository and list the URL on your submission page.



## Accessibility
### Easy-read
Ensure all text in your game is large, in a clear sans-serif font, and on plain high contrast backgrounds.

 

### Outside the box
The game is played using a non-standard controller or other methods to interact with the game. The game is not controlled using a keyboard, mouse, console game controller, or touch screen. 

 

### Contextual
The game uses no more than two buttons, but the buttons perform a wide range of different functions that change based on the player/character's current scenario in the game

 

### Old school
Your game’s control scheme would fit onto a 1980s joystick (d-pad + 1 button) or paddle (analogue left/right + 1 button)

 

### Al-ʿarabiyyah
Your game supports Arabic language.

## Art
### Y2K

It has been 25 years since the start of this new millennium. Celebrate it by implementing any early 2000s / late 90s aesthetics such as Y2K Futurism, Frutiger Aero, Metalheart, etc. 

 

### #256fes

3D models can use no more than 256 triangles and a 256x256 texture

 

### Crafty
Your game incorporates physical arts and crafts created by the developers (e.g. knitting, sculpture, quilling, embroidery, woodcarving, lino printing, etc.)

 

### This belongs in a museum
Use public domain artworks and assets from galleries, libraries, and museums prominently in your game (e.g. see The Procession to Calvary).

## Audio
### Tranquility
Use music and sounds to induce a sense of calmness and relaxation.

 

### Melodic
Your music has a single melody which evolves as the game progresses.

 

### Soundscape

Create an immersive atmosphere through use of ambient sounds rather than music.

## Code
### You’ve got mail

The game is played via email.

 

### Ingested
The story evolves based on real-world data feeds creating a unique experience that changes with current events. (some nice examples) 

 

### <html>
Your game is coded entirely in html and CSS, and runs in-browser.

## Design
### Two-fold
Your game incorporates origami.

 

### Herding cats
The player controls five or more characters. 


### In a liminal space
The game is set in some kind of eerie empty space, like an abandoned mall or a vacant hotel. 


### Time is a flat circle
The ending of your game seamlessly merges back to its beginning in a loop.

## Meta
### Anthology
Instead of making one game, make at least three micro-games that are thematically linked to create a small collection.


### Documentary
Document and share your development process publicly during the jam, for example through posts, screenshots, videos, or builds. 

 

### Incognito

Your gameplay, artwork, etc. initially gives players the impression that they are not playing a game.

## Narrative
### Transit Transcendence
Design a game that reimagines public transportation as a key to connecting people, stories, and places in innovative and inclusive ways.

 

### Poetic

Put into poetry

### All words, written or spoken,

Contained in your game

 

### Strange as folk
Your game has a folk horror theme.